The authoritative version of this file is the one [in the Scotty3D repository](https://github.com/CMU-Graphics/Scotty3D/blob/main/assignments/A4.md).

# A4: Animation

In Assignment 4 you will write code to complete Scotty3D's animation system, including skeletal animation, linear-blend skinning, and a particle simulation.

The assignment is split into four tasks:

## Scoring

Total [100pts]: (capped at [110pts], even with extra credit)
- Checkpoint A4.0: [50pts]
	- `A4T1` Spline Interpolation [13pts]
	- `A4T2` Skeleton Kinematics [35pts]
	- writeup-A4.html [2pts]
- Checkpint A4.5: [50pts]
	- `A4T3` Linear Blend Skinning [20pts]
	- `A4T4` Particle Simulation [20pts]
	- writeup-A4.html [3pts]
	- animation.js3d + animation.mp4 [7pts]
## Hand-in Instructions

To turn in your work, make sure you have all the files in the proper place and then run the following command in your root directory:
```
$ tar cvzf handin.tar src tests/a4 assignments/writeup-A4.html assignments/A4-writeup assignments/resources
```

Details:
- We encourage you to develop your own test cases. Please include these in the `tests/` folder.
- If you do any extra credit that requires substantial refactoring (of the sort that might break tests), submit your code and write-up for the extra credit in a separate `extra/` folder. Please explain where to replace this code in the `src/` directory to allow us to test it.
- `animation.mp4` (or any other video format) and `animation.js3d` are a cool animation you've assembled and rendered with Scotty3D (see below)
- `writeup-A4.html` is described below.
- Please make sure you do not have any print statements enabled or anything that may make it impossible to render images headless. You will lose points if there are an excessive amount of prints when we run your code.

### Write-up
You will submit a short document explaining how you believe your implementation performs on each of the tasks. The project directory contains a template in `writeup-A4.html`.

For each task, do either of the following:
* If you believe that you have correctly implemented the required functions, then simply replace any reference images with images from your implentation and answer any questions listed in the writeup. 
* If your implementation does not fully function, write an additional short explanation of what your code can and cannot do, and (optionally) briefly explain your strategy and how you got stuck. If your explanation indicates significant understanding of the problem, we may award partial credit even though the code does not work.

### Animate Something With Your Code!
It's very satisfying to see the images your code can make -- and the process of making something beautiful will encourage you to improve your code and fix bugs.
So build some cool skeletal animations, particle effects, material transitions, and/or camera moves and render them with your pathtracer!
If you don't want to model things in Scotty3D, the "Import obj" button can help you import meshes from other programs (but please make sure you hold a license for the meshes you use).

In addition, you will need to write a brief artists' statement for your `animation.js3d`/`animation.mp4`.

#### Note: Converting Frames to Video

Once you've rendered out each frame of your animation, you can combine them into a video by using:

`ffmpeg -r 30 -f image2 -s 640x360 -pix_fmt yuv420p -i ./%4d.png -vcodec libx264 out.mp4`

You may want to change the default `30` and `640x360` to the frame rate and resolution you chose to render at.

If you don't have ffmpeg installed on your system, you can get it through most package managers, or you can [download it directly](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html). Alternatively, you may use your preferred video editing tool.


## Checkpoint A4.0

### `A4T1` Splines
See [Splines](A4/T1-splines.md).

### `A4T2` Skeleton
See [Skeleton](A4/T2-skeleton.md).

## Checkpoint A4.5

### `A4T3` Skinning
See [Skinning](A4/T3-skinning.md).

### `A4T4` Particles
See [Particles](A4/T4-particles.md).